How can anyone, who has an interest to learn DSA and wants to be good at problem solving, LEARNS it:
(Minimum 5-6 months, 3-4 hours daily for learning)

1. Go through the basics of all the major Data Structures and it's implementation, functionalites and time complexities. Go through 5-10 **questions of each here.
(Arrays, Stack, Queue, Linked-List, Map, Heap, Tree, Graph)

2. Now, once you are clear with the basic understanding of the Data Structures, now you can start with Basic Algorithms and techniques based on the above Data Structures. Go through 5-10 **questions of each here.
(Recursion, Searching, Sorting, BFS, DFS etc.)

3. Once you are done with the Basic Algorithms, now you can move to Complex Concepts and Algorithms. Go through 4-5 **questions of each.
(Greedy, Dynamic Programming, Divide and Conquer, String Algorithms, Graph Algorithms, Tree Algorithms etc)

4. Once you have all the basics done, now move towards pattern based learning. Learn about Maths, Bit Manipulation, Arrays, 2 pointers, Slow fast pointers, Binary Search, Sliding window, prefix sum, Dynamic Programming patterns, 2 heap, bucket sort, Cyclic sort etc. This will take your time as this will make you learn more about finding certain pattern while solving DSA.
Go through 10-15 **questions from each topic.

5. Once you are done with above topics, you can move to some of the advance DSA topics Trie, Segment Trees, Union Find, Topological Sort. Go through 5-8 **Questions from each topic.

You will be ready to face any question on Leetcode as you have completed all the above topics and must have gone through at least 250 **questions by now.
(Having the confidence to face a question and to solve a question are two separate things, in my opinion)


Data Structures and Algorithms problem solving is similar to Mathematics problem solving; You must know some of the THEOREMS and AXIOMS to solve further problems. Practice can only help you to be better at Maths as well as DSA.


This is a general approach one can follow to LEARN. If I missed any point, do let me know in the comments


**Questions above mentioned are the general straight forward questions with respect to each topic.
