
1. TCP/IP
Is technically a Protcol Suite
IP Routes Traffic
Layer 3 OSI Model Network
Routable Networks (sub networks)
TCP controls transmission between connected systems
Layer 4 OSI Model  Transport
Windowing is the process of sending data from one computer to another in TCP/IP version 4
2. How TCP/IP Works
IP Addresses -- Every device on a TCP/IP network needs an individual IP Address
DNS (Domain Name Service/Server) resolves Domain names into IP Addreses
DHCP (Dynamic Host Control Protcol) Servers automatically assign IP information to clients for a specific time period (Lease).  Clients try to renew leases at 50% expiration point.
Default Gateway (Router) connects networks.  If an IP Address cannot be found on the local network the computer tries to use the Default Gateway to find the target.
Subnets and Subnet Masking -- Subnets are individual networks.  Subnet Masks divide IP Addresses in Subnet Number and Host Number
What the Number Mean
IP Addresses and Subnet Masks are made of 4 Octets of Bits
128-64-32-16-8-4-2-1
Subnet Masking
IP Addresses contain the Subnet Number and Host Number.  The Subnet Mask tells you where the subnet number ends and the host number begins.
Classful Networks A, B, C,D,E  Gone now use CIDR
The Highest Address in a Subnet Range is the Broadcast address
To determine the number of subnets (n is the number of bits used)= 2n
To determine number of Hosts = 2n -2

Routable protocol - 
Protocols which allows a network to be divided into sub-networks. All subnetwork talk to each other via a router.'
IP - OSI layer 3 - network layer
TCP - OSI layer 4 - transport layer

Non-routable -
Every computer is connected to every other computer, complete mess

IP is for locating computers on the internet, TCP helps in communication between them.
Windowing - client sends data to server in the form of packets, smaller chunks of data. It starts with smaller number of packets and increases the number of packets as the server receives
everything successfully. Resets / resorts back to smallest number of packets when the server fails to receive some packets.

Every device on the internet has to have an 
IP - networking device idntifier
Subnet Mask - to identify the subnet
Default gateway - router for the subnet mask, Enables a computer to talk to other devices that are on the internet.
DNS - domain name server - domain names to IP address mapping
DHCP - Dynamic Host Control Protocol - 

static IP - assign IP, DNS, default gateway manually
Dynamic IP - Computer gets the IP, subnet mask, default gateway etc from the DHCP when it connects to the network. 
DHCP - can give out IP's based on a scope(10.100.4.90 - 10.100.4.190), keeps track of all the IP's given out, gives default gateway,
subnet mask etc to the requesting comp on the network. This info is given with a LEASE time (how long can the machine keep the config)
Halfway through the least time mark, computer makes another call to DHCP to renew the configs.

NAT - Network Address Translation
Earlier notion - every device on the internet must have an IP unique to the world - not enough IP's
with NAT - every device need not have an absolute unique IP
Routers / default gateway should have a dedicated IP. All computers inside a N/W can re-use IPs.
Internet sees the IP of the default gateway, NAT inside the router translates external IP into the actual IP.

Subnet tells what part of the IP is network identifier and what part is device identifier.

Subnets -
class A - 255.0.0.0
class B - 255.255.0.0
class C - 255.255.255.0

2 devices connected to the same switch in any network, but on different subnets will not be able to talk to each other. You need 
a router for talking

Hub - predecessor of switch, It repeats signal received from one of the ports to the other ports, Lot of collisions - braodcast storm - a complete mess.

Switch - 
 * Every single networking device created out there has a MAC address (printer, computers, switches etc)
 * Switches learn where each computer is connected to (which) based on broadcasting packest initially to all the comp, and then sends
   packets only to the intended recepient. Multiple computers can talk to each other simultaneously now.
 * Managed switches - configurable 
 * Unmanaged switches - Not configurable, everything is automatic
 
half duplex - Can only talk / listen at a moment
Full duplex - Can talk and listen at the same time

Connect different switches using the truck port only - fiber optic trunk port - used to connect switch to the internet

VLAN - Virtual LAN - Allows to separate different computers / ports on the switch into separate networks such that they are not a
able to talk to each other 

Different VLAN's can only talk to each other using routers' and nothing else.
Packets - lowest unit of data

QOS - Quality of Service - Used to prioritize packets
VOIP packets - higher priority packets than the file download.

Servers - 
* provide services to other computers on the network
* Server OS diff from Desktop OS
* Server - made to be turned on always, more robust, supports more concurrency
* Server softwares are more expensive than desktop os s/w

Intel Xeon processor - server H/W - built for servers

ECC RAM - Error Correcting Code - 




